OFFICIAL VERSION: September 2021

GREEN MARK 2021

EE

In Hw

Cn Mt Re
CERTIFICATION STANDARD
.

Green Mark Department
Environmental Sustainability Group
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road
#12-01, Singapore 608550
(Above JEM)

© 2021 by Building and Construction Authority
All rights reserved. The Green Mark 2021 (GM: 2021) Certification Standard may be used by individuals for reference
purposes only. Any user of the Green Mark Certification Standard shall retain all copyright and other proprietary notices
contained in it. Save as provided above, and sales, modification, reproduction, display or distribution of the Green Mark
Certification Standard or any copies thereof is not allowed without BCA’s prior written consent, which may be obtained by
requesting to https://www.bca.gov.sg/feedbackform/

Published 7th September 2021

Disclaimer
The information within Green Mark, including any examples, images and illustrations are for reference only, intended to
educate and assist built environment stakeholders. This does not replace the need for professional advice, due diligence and
legal compliances. None of the parties involved in Green Mark 2021 assume any liability for the accuracy, completeness or
reliance on the information contained within.

Revision Log
Revision

Description

Effective Date

P1

For Pilot

22/04/2021

R1

1st Version

1/11/2021

R1.1

1st Version with minor updates

1/11/2021

Page 2 of 32

Contents
DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS ........................................................................................................ 4
WHAT IS GREEN MARK: 2021 ................................................................................................................. 6
KEY ADVANCEMENTS IN GREEN MARK: 2021 ........................................................................................ 7
#1 Aggressive Energy Efficiency (Operational Carbon) Standard ................................................... 7
#2 Further Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ................................ 7
#3 Introduction of GM: 2021 In-Operation..................................................................................... 7
#4 SLE Residential ........................................................................................................................... 7
#5 Other Key Changes ..................................................................................................................... 8
WHY GREEN MARK: 2021........................................................................................................................ 9
TARGETED OUTCOME OF GREEN MARK: 2021 ....................................................................................... 9
GUIDELINES FOR APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION ............................................................................... 11
GREEN MARK: 2021 APPLICATION PROCESS ........................................................................................ 13
GREEN MARK 2021 ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK .................................................................................. 14
GREEN MARK 2021 RATINGS ................................................................................................................ 15
GREEN MARK: 2021 CERTIFICATION CRITERIA ..................................................................................... 18
Energy Efficiency (Operational Carbon) ............................................................................................ 18
Sustainability Sections ...................................................................................................................... 21
Health and Well-being (Hw) .......................................................................................................... 21
Whole Life Carbon (Cn) ................................................................................................................. 21
Resilience (Re) ............................................................................................................................... 21
Maintainability (Mt) ...................................................................................................................... 22
Intelligence (In) ............................................................................................................................. 22
BCA GREEN MARK LOGO and ENQUIRIES ............................................................................................. 23
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ......................................................................................................................... 26
ANNEX 1: KEY REGULATORY ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS ............................................................... 28

Page 3 of 32

DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Colour Rendering Index (CRI)
A measurement from 1 to 100 that indicates how accurately an artificial light source, as compared with an
incandescent light, displays hues. The higher the index, the more accurately the light is rendering colours (from
U.S Energy Star).
District Cooling System (DCS)
The supply of chilled water for cooling purpose from a central source to multiple buildings through a network of
pipes. Individual users purchase chilled water from the district cooling system operator and do not need to install
their own chiller plant other than air distribution system. This is different from buildings’ in-house airconditioning system, in part or in full, being maintained and operated by a third party.
Energy Efficiency (EE)
Energy refers to the capacity for doing work. Energy Efficiency means using less energy to perform the same
work, which is eliminating energy waste.
Energy Use Intensity (EUI)
EUI is measured by the total electricity used within a building in a year, expressed as kilowatt hour (kWh), per
gross floor area (m²). As electricity is the main source of energy used in Singapore's buildings, other energy
sources are typically excluded in the computation of energy use intensity.
Gross Floor Area (GFA)
The total area of the covered floor space in a building based on the definition under the Urban Redevelopment
Authority (URA).
Super Low Energy (SLE)
Best-in-class energy performing building that achieves at least 60% energy savings based on code of 2005, or
40% energy savings based on prevailing code.
Zero Energy (ZE)
A super low energy (SLE) building with all energy consumption, including plug load, supplied from renewable
energy sources.
Positive Energy (PE)
A super low energy (SLE) building with 115% of all energy consumption, including plug load, supplied from
renewable energy sources.
Operational Carbon
The amount of carbon emissions associated with energy used to operate the building or in the operation of
infrastructure (World Green Building Council).
Renewable Energy Certificate (REC)
A market-based instrument representing the proof that a unit of electricity was generated from a renewable
energy resource. Once the power provider has fed the energy into the grid, the REC received can then be sold
on the open market as an energy commodity. To be recognised REC’s shall be compliant SS 673: 2021 Singapore
Standard Code of practice for renewable energy certificates.

Page 4 of 32

Mt Framework (Maintainability Framework)
The design appraisal tool used for demonstrating the design for maintainability (DfM) performance within
Green Mark 2021 Maintainability section.

Page 5 of 32

WHAT IS GREEN MARK: 2021
The Green Mark 2021 (GM: 2021) has evolved from our previous Green Mark framework to become:
•

•

•

simple – many pre-requisites have been removed, and the criteria have been restructured to two broad
categories: (1) Energy Efficiency (the only prerequisite) and (2) Sustainability sections covering
Intelligence, Health and Well-being, Whole life Carbon, Maintainability and Resilience.
sustainable – the GM: 2021 criteria have been aligned to meet the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs), pushing the energy efficiency envelope to mainstream Super Low
Energy buildings, and recognising the future requirements from various sustainable finance
taxonomies.
smart – GM: 2021 keeps digitalisation efforts in mind to facilitate easy, seamless and secure
certification processes.

In addition, GM: 2021 aims to be:
•
•
•

owner-friendly – meeting building developers’ and owners’ needs for sustainable operations and
environmental social and governance (ESG) reporting and demonstrating their leadership
cost-effective – pushing the boundaries of sustainability with a value driven approach, including
environmental value, social value and economic value based on a Life-Cycle Cost (LCC) approach
user-friendly – a robust yet flexible framework, that brings all buildings into the same ecosystem of GM:
2021.

Page 6 of 32

KEY ADVANCEMENTS IN GREEN MARK: 2021
#1 Aggressive Energy Efficiency (Operational Carbon) Standard
The energy efficiency standard in GM: 2021 has been calibrated and aggressively raised in tandem with the
revised standards in the regulatory minimum in environmental sustainability for both new and existing
buildings.1
Parallel energy efficiency pathways have been developed to meet the aggressive energy efficiency standards set
in GM: 2021. They are:
Pathway 1: Energy Consumption based, using the Energy Use Intensity (EUI)
Pathway 2: Deemed-to-comply prescriptive performance, using fixed metrics
Pathway 3: Performance-based energy modelling
An artificial-intelligence (AI) enabled energy calculator is also being developed to facilitate data-driven
contextualised simulation as well as demonstration of compliance. More information about the AI energy
calculator could be found here at BCA’s SLEB Smart Hub. https://www.sleb.sg/AICalculator.
All pathways are open for new and existing buildings to use. Each building type has a guide to which of the three
pathways can be used for that typology of building (see table 1). To ensure robust efficiency standards are met,
a stipulated Total System Efficiency (TSE) of air-conditioning system is required to be demonstrated. TSE
measures the overall air-conditioning system efficiency covering the water- and air-side systems (or CU and air
side) and provides greater flexibility for designers to optimise their building cooling system’s performance.

#2 Further Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
GM: 2021 takes a holistic view of socio-environmental issues. It aligns with the United Nation (UN) Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) and further translates and contextualises them for implementation within the built
environment within Singapore and the urban tropics. Beyond the SDGs, it also takes reference to various
developing sustainable finance taxonomies, including the European Union (EU) taxonomy and requirements
within the Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Green Mark as a leading green building rating tool, is benchmarked to international tools, the World Green
Building Council’s Health and Wellbeing Framework and wider evidence-based global imperatives.

#3 Introduction of GM: 2021 In-Operation
GM: 2021 In-Operation is designed to encourage buildings certified with Green Mark to continuously improve
and maintain their environmental practices in operation. It is a streamlined certification process for certified
projects not undergoing a retrofit, to maintain a valid Green Mark Certification with the submission of key
performance indicators to ensure continued performance of the Green Mark project in energy efficiency, indoor
environmental quality (IEQ) and smart operations, etc. Projects can maintain the previous Green Mark award
rating or upgrade the ratings based on the energy efficiency performance. For detailed requirement, please refer
to this table.
The detail requirement is available here. BCA assessors will conduct random site check for GM: 2021 In
Operation projects.

#4 SLE Residential
Expansion of SLE to cater for new and existing residential projects, emphasising a passive design for the dwelling
units and common areas, high efficiency energy systems with smart management controls, and the requirement

1

The revised regulatory requirements require new building developments and those undergoing major retrofitting and/or major energy
use change to attain 50% and 40% energy savings compared to 2005 levels, respectively, which is comparable to the energy performance
standards of Green Mark Platinum buildings of previous versions (GM2015, GM2016 and GM2017).

Page 7 of 32

for adoption of onsite renewable energy to offset a proportion of the key facilities such as the swimming pools,
gymnasiums and function rooms.

#5 Other Key Changes
Enhancement on energy modelling and computer fluid dynamics frameworks
The energy modelling and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation have been enhanced to provide a more
complete understanding of building performance through simulations to support the operation of energy
efficient buildings, whilst recognising the advancement in simulation software and its use in practice.
•
•

CFD has been enhanced to improve clarity of conditions for both residential and non-residential
developments and the approach to wind-driven rain simulations.
Standardised schedules in energy modelling have been incorporated to enable consistent comparison
of annual energy savings of the designed building against reference building for energy savings. Projects
using the EUI pathway should adopt the standardised schedules if operational schedules of the building
are unavailable at the design stage.

Page 8 of 32

WHY GREEN MARK: 2021
Green Mark provides a robust and leading method to assess and verify buildings for their environmental
performance, assisting project teams and building owners to deliver and demonstrate high performing and
sustainable buildings. Green Mark is built upon best practices, climate science, analysis of large building
performance data sets and global thought leadership. GM: 2021 aims to further stretch outcomes of buildings
to substantially reduce the environmental impacts – focusing on whole life carbon, health and wellbeing,
resilience, intelligence and maintainability. GM provides a nationally and globally recognised green building
performance rating.

TARGETED OUTCOME OF GREEN MARK: 2021
GM: 2021 aims to drive energy efficiency and carbon reduction in mitigating the effects of climate change, as
well as other sustainable aspects that deliver on addressing the key sustainability drivers.
Key Sustainability Drivers
Globally, consensus is for Green Buildings to be defined through several key issues including:
•

climate action (decarbonisation of the built environment)

•

health and well-being (resilience, social equity, pollution mitigation, health, diversity)

•

resources and circularity (regeneration of resources and natural systems)

Through Green Mark’s co-creation we have identified the key aspects within these issues, which are relevant to
our marketplace, and translate them into the delivery of the UN SDGs, in alignment with longer-term sustainable
finance considerations. These have been contextualised into our criteria to define the sustainability sections.
These sections, in addition to energy, are Intelligence (smart buildings), Health and Wellbeing (the mental,
physical and sociological aspects of buildings and their operation), Whole Life Carbon (which looks at the
embodied carbon, construction, fit out and supports corporate plans to transition to zero carbon),
Maintainability (the design for safe and effective maintenance) and Resilience (nature-based solutions and
leadership).
Green Mark Sections maped to UN SDGs

The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are the blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future
for all. They address challenges of the global community, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate,
environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice. The Goals are integrated and indivisible, balancing the
three dimensions of sustainability.
https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/
Page 9 of 32

Programmes related GM: 2021 certification:
GreenGov.SG
Formerly known as the Public Sector Taking the Lead in Environmental Sustainability (PSTLES) initiative, the
GreenGov.SG initiative forms a component and enabler of the Singapore Green Plan 2030. Under GreenGov.SG,
the public sector will strive to attain ambitious sustainability targets in carbon abatement and resource
efficiency. As well as being a positive influence and enabler of green efforts. The new and more ambitious targets
include:
•
•
•
•

Peaking the public sector’s carbon emissions around 2025
Improve Energy Utilisation Index (EUI) by 10% by 2030, from average of 2018-2020 levels
Improve Water Efficiency Index (WEI) by 10% by 2030, from average of 2018-2020 levels
Improve Waste Disposal Index (WDI) by 30% by 2030, from 2022 levels

The BCA Green Mark scheme (Platinum SLE standards) is part of the GreenGov.SG requirement for all new and
existing buildings under retrofit, and a key enabler in meeting the whole of government sustainability targets.

Mandatory Higher Green Mark Standard for GLS sites
Projects developed on land sold under the Government Land Sales (GLS) programme and are subject to the
Building Control (Environmental Sustainability) Regulations 2008 to attain higher Green Mark standard, are
required to
•
•

Submit an application to BCA for the project to be assessed and certified under the BCA Green Mark
Scheme.
Upon completion of building works, inform BCA early to initiate the Green Mark verification audit so as
to facilitate the temporary occupation permit (TOP) and certificate of statutory completion (CSC)
process.

Note that the evidence of Green Mark application is required to be submitted along with the application for
Building Plan approval. Upon project completion, the relevant clearances showing that the project has been
verified and met the prescribed Green Mark Certification rating will also be required before TOP and/or CSC can
be considered.

Page 10 of 32

GUIDELINES FOR APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION
Eligibility
GM: 2021 is for newly designed and existing buildings either undergoing retrofitting (including major change to
the cooling system) or that have not been previously certified. Most of the building types are eligible for
assessment, including office towers, retail buildings and hotels. However, GM: 2021 does not apply to office
interiors, retail interiors or other interior fit out projects.
Except for GM: 2021 In-operation certification, it is a mandatory requirement for building projects to meet the
Building Control (Environmental Sustainability) Regulations 2008 or Building Control (Environmental
Sustainability) Regulations 2013 before Green Mark certification could be conferred.

Submission for Certification
The BCA GM: 2021 certification process is as follows:

APPLICATION

ASSESSMENT

VERIFICATION

• Prior to the submission of
GM application, applicant
is to ensure eligibility
requirement stated above
could be fulfilled.
• Submission of application
with relevant supporting
documents
for
certification.

• Assessment
to
be
conducted
once
the
design
and/or
documentary evidence are
ready.

• Site verification may be
conducted upon project
completion.

• Upon
acceptance
of
application
and
fee
payable, a BCA Green
Mark Assessor will be
assigned for the duration
of the project.

• Assessment
process
includes design and/or
documentary reviews to
verify if the building
project meets (i) the
intents of the criteria and
certification level; and (ii)
the
pre-requisite
requirements.

• Site verification process
includes review of delivery
records,
updated
documents on green
features, building energy
performance data and
photographic evidence.
Site
inspection
and
measurement will be
conducted.

Detailed information on the certification process is available on the BCA website:
https://www1.bca.gov.sg/buildsg/sustainability/green-mark-certification-scheme/green-mark-assessmentcriteria-and-online-application
GM assessment will be carried out by BCA’s appointed assessors. To be awarded with Green Mark certification,
all documents submitted for the BCA GM assessment should be duly verified and signed by responsible person(s)
stipulated in Table 1 and appropriate practitioners where applicable. The necessary documents are required to
provide the evidence for the performance requirements being met. The project team only needs to provide the
relevant information; the full project’s documentation is not required for submission for Green Mark
certification. The detailed documents required can be found in various technical guides of GM: 2021.

Page 11 of 32

Table 1 Responsible Person (s) for Application Submission
Description

Responsible Persons for Application Submission

GM online submission

For GM: 2021 Full Certification
SGBC accredited GMAP or GMAAP*, Registered Architect or
Professional Engineer
For GM: 2021 In-Operation:
Either Registered
GMAP/GMAAP*

Energy

Auditors

or

SGBC’s

accredited

* Includes GM AP(FM) and GM AAP(FM)

Energy Modelling

Assessment Stage
PE (Mech), PE(Electrical) and accredited GMAAP for coendorsement on Energy Modelling (EM) form
Verification Stage
SGBC’s accredited Green Mark AAP for endorsement on EM form
Revised Energy Modelling Guide available here

Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD)

SGBC’s accredited Green Mark AAP for endorsement on CFD report
Revised CFD Guide available here

Energy audit or OSE report

PE (Mech) Or Registered Energy Auditor

Page 12 of 32

GREEN MARK: 2021 APPLICATION PROCESS

*Projects subject to Environmental Sustainability Regulations, including projects with major change of cooling system or major retrofit would be subject to
GM: 2021 certification. Projects which are not subject to ES regulations, AND have been previously held a Green Mark certificate can use GM 2021 InOperation

Page 13 of 32

GREEN MARK 2021 ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK
The GM: 2021 certification framework covers:
(1) New developments, at the design and completion (as built) stage
(2) Existing buildings in operation, with no previous Green Mark certification
(3) Existing buildings with major retrofit 2

GM: 2021 In Operations would apply for:
•
•

Existing buildings in operation that have previously held Green Mark certification, and with no major
energy use change.
Projects seeking Green Mark Re-certification

GM: 2021 In-Operation is a simplified version of GM: 2021 for projects that have previously been assessed and
fully certified under Green Mark that have demonstrated their holistic environmental performance. GM: 2021
In Operation tracks the key performance indicators, based on actual operational data to ensure the building is
performing in its operation to the same GM 2021 standard.

2 Major retrofit refers to ‘major energy use change’ as defined under Part IIIB of the Building Control Act 2012 and Building

Control (Environmental Sustainability Measures for Existing Buildings) Regulations. These include the installation or
replacement of air conditioning systems. For definition of major energy use change or major retrofit, please refer to the
latest Environmental Sustainability regulatory requirement in BCA’s website https://go.gov.sg/regulations

Page 14 of 32

GREEN MARK 2021 RATINGS
GM: 2021 is positioned to recognise performance that is above mandatory, regulated standards, that include
robust levels of energy efficiency, indoor air quality, greenery provision, active mobility considerations, materials
and waste management and water efficiency. Annex 1 provides a brief overview of some of the key mandatory
standards.

[1] Mandatory requirements are based on development control and building plan provisions for new buildings, for existing buildings under
retrofit, the requirements would vary depending on the type and extent of the works being undertaken.

Green Mark Certification
Project teams can choose either to follow the Green Mark Gold PLUS or Platinum certification, or Green Mark
SLE certification.
GM Series

GM SLE Series

-

SLE, ZE, PE

GoldPLUS

GoldPLUS SLE

Platinum

Platinum SLE

For Green Mark In-Operation there is a Green Mark Gold level of certification, to encourage projects certified
under our legacy Green Mark certification tools to continue to demonstrate their high levels of environmental
performance.

Page 15 of 32

The GM: 2021 Badges
Where projects achieve at least 10 GM points in a sustainability section, the BCA GM: 2021 Certificate would
have a special mention of the achievement via a ‘badge’ being awarded. The project team may use a combination
of, or individually the associated logo or graphic along with the BCA Green Mark Logo and level of award in their
marketing collaterals and materials related to the certified building, show casing their exemplary performance
in an area of sustainability.

Page 16 of 32

Notes:
1. Off-site REC procurement is only applicable for projects meeting energy saving ≥60%. REC’s must be generated in Singapore through renewables deployed within Singapore.
2. GM: 2021 includes other sustainable requirement regulated by other agencies including BCA’s Building Control (Environmental Sustainability) Regulations 2008 and Building Control
(Environmental Sustainability Measures for Existing Buildings) Regulation 2013. Meeting these regulated requirements would have deemed meeting at least 50 GM points. Refer to Annex 1.
3. Building projects that are subject to the Government Land sales, it is a mandatory requirement to also meet the Building Control (Environmental Sustainability) Regulations 2008 before
Green Mark certification could be conferred.
4. Gold rating is only applicable to projects applying for GM: 2021 In Operation

Page 17 of 32

GREEN MARK: 2021 CERTIFICATION CRITERIA
Energy Efficiency (Operational Carbon)3
Energy efficiency (Operational Carbon) is required in the following:
1. New non-residential development
2. New residential development
3. Existing non-residential development
There are three pathways leading to greater energy efficiency, with each pathway describing the requirements
to achieve an energy efficiency of 50%, 55% and 60% (SLE standard)4.

Energy Efficiency Pathways
Energy Efficiency is the only prerequisite in GM: 2021, aimed at ensuring projects reduce their operational
carbon and associated operating costs from the reduction in energy consumption.
The three pathways are designed to facilitate different types of buildings in fulfilling their respective energy
efficiency requirements:
The Green Mark Energy Pathways are:
•
•

•

Data driven and flexible – aligned to real project performance with validated data. Flexible routes for
projects to demonstrate their performance.
Outcome based – full recognition of passive design strategies and renewable energy systems
contribution to energy savings.
Supportive of innovation, encourage the use of new technologies, approaches and solutions to energy
performance.

Pathway 1 – EUI
Total Building annual energy consumption over the gross floor area of the building (kWh/m2/yr). Based on:
•
•
•

Energy modelling (Design)
Energy Calculation and measured data (Retrofit)
Measurement – In operation

Pathway 2 – Fixed Metrics
A prescriptive pathway where projects must demonstrate high levels of performance in each of the key building
energy systems.
•
•

Key performance metrics (ingredients) that make an energy efficient project. All aspects must be met
individually.
Any shortfall in performance can be made up with the use of onsite renewables, subject to the
building typology multiplication factor.

3

Based on 2005 levels, this translates to 30%, 35% and 40% EE improvement over current codes at the time of writing (Q1
2021)
4

Operational Carbon is a term to describe the amount of carbon emissions associated with energy used to operate the
building or in the operation of infrastructure (World Green Building Council)
Page 18 of 32

Pathway 3 – Energy Savings
•

Demonstrated energy savings following the Green Mark Energy Modelling guideline which looks at
holistic energy performance against a reference model. Refer to Energy Modelling Guideline for
details on how to complete the energy modelling simulation

All projects are required to comply with one of the energy efficiency pathways to demonstrate their energy
efficiency levels.
Refer to the Energy Efficiency Section Document for details on the requirement for each pathway.
Refer to BCA’s SLEB Smart Hub (www.sleb.sg) for details on innovative EE solutions and services.
Off-site renewable energy, including those from purchased Renewable Energy Credits (REC), are applicable for
projects going for Zero Energy Buildings (ZE). The REC’s must be generated in Singapore through renewable
energy generated within Singapore, in accordance with SS 673: 2021 Singapore Standard Code of practice for
renewable energy certificates. The length of time of REC commitment is minimally three years with commitment
of re-certification.
Table 2 shows the applicability for the three pathways.

Page 19 of 32

Table 2 – Energy Efficiency (EE) Pathway Applicability
PATHWAY 2
Fixed Metrics

PATHWAY 3
Energy Savings

•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

by GFA mix
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

High Tech Industrial Buildings
Light Industrial Buildings
Warehouses, Workshops and Others

•
•
•

•
•
•

Residential
Non-Landed Residential (HDB, EC, condominiums,
private apartments)
Cluster Housing
Landed Housing

•
•
•

Building Type

PATHWAY 1
EUI
Commercial

Office Buildings
Hotels
Retail Buildings
Educational
IHL (University, Polytechnics and ITE)
Private Schools and Colleges
Junior Colleges (MOE)
Secondary Schools (MOE)
Primary Schools (MOE)
Healthcare
Hospitals (Private and General)
Community Hospitals
Polyclinics
Nursing Homes/ Youth Homes

Other Non-Residential
Mixed Developments
Community Centres
Civic Buildings
Cultural Institutions
Sports and Recreation Centres
Religious/ Places of Worship

•
•
•
•
Industrial

ALL OTHER BUILDING TYPES

Bespoke

EC – Executive Condominium
GFA – Gross Floor Area
HDB – Housing and Development Board
IHL – Institute of Higher Learning
ITE – Institute of Technical Education
MOE – Ministry of Education

•

%

EE
Page 20 of 32

Sustainability Sections
There are five environmental sustainability sections under GM: 2021 Framework. These sections are developed
with various industry stakeholders and fulfil the relevant UN Global Goals for SDGs. There are 15 points available
in each section – a project scoring 10 points and above from each section qualifies to get a badge which
represents their exceptional performance in that area.

Health and Well-being (Hw)

Hw

The Health and Well-being section will score buildings on how they are
designed, retrofitted, constructed, and operated to facilitate the mental,
physical, and social well-being of their occupants. This section has been
developed jointly with the Ministry of Health Office for Healthcare
Transformation (MOHT) and Centre for Liveable Cities (CLC).

Whole Life Carbon (Cn)

Cn

The Whole Life Carbon section will score buildings on their Whole Life
Carbon performance based on international calculation methodologies,
upfront (embodied) carbon (i.e., carbon footprint of the construction
materials), use of sustainable construction methods, and the sustainable
fitting-out of buildings. The section will also evaluate the plans, and
delivery of those plans to transition the building towards zero carbon
emissions.

Resilience (Re)

Re

The Resilience section will evaluate buildings on their resilience and
adaptation to climate change as well as the use of nature-based or
natural climate solutions with actions to protect, sustainably manage,
and restore natural or modified ecosystems.

Page 21 of 32

Maintainability (Mt)

Mt

The Maintainability section will score buildings on their Design for
Maintainability (DfM), which refers to designing buildings for their safe
and effective maintenance to optimise lifecycle performance of the
asset. This section uses the Maintainability Framework (the DfM
evaluation tool) and translates this into Green Mark points.

In

The Intelligence section will score buildings on the adoption of relevant
smart technologies and systems, and data management environments
within the building design, construction, retrofit and operation of the
building, that enable fully integrated, automated, intelligent, and
responsive buildings.

Intelligence (In)

EE

In Hw

Cn Mt Re

Page 22 of 32

BCA GREEN MARK LOGO and ENQUIRIES
The Green Mark Logo

For enquires on the use of the Green Mark logo, go to: https://www1.bca.gov.sg/docs/default-source/docscorp-buildsg/sustainability/guidelines-for-usage-of-bca-green-mark-logo.pdf

The GM: 2021 BADGES
Where projects achieve a badge for exceptional performance in a sustainability section or sections, the project
team may use a combination of, or individually the associated logo or graphic along with the BCA Green Mark
Logo and level of award in their marketing collaterals and materials related to the certified building.
Section & Description of Use

Logo

Health and Wellbeing

Whole Life Carbon

Page 23 of 32

Icon

Resilience

Maintainability

Intelligence

Page 24 of 32

For Energy Performance Use along with the range of energy savings such as 50% or 55%, SLE, ZE or PE
Logo

Icon

A branding guide shall be developed to assist in the use of the BCA Green Mark Logo and Green Mark badges.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
The FAQ section on the BCA website provide clear submission guidelines and additional technical assistance to
project teams.
https://www1-bca-gov-sg-admin.cwp.sg/docs/default-source/docs-corpbuildsg/sustainability/20211027_gm2021-faqs.pdf

Green Mark Training Courses
The BCA Academy also provides training courses to provide the necessary knowledge required in Green Mark
assessment.
SGBC-certify Green Mark professionals such as GMAPs and GMAAPs to support Green Mark assessment. To be
a certified GMAP/GMAAP, please refer to SGBC website https://gmap.sgbc.online/public/about
For information on Green Mark courses, visit the BCA Academy: https://www.bcaa.edu.sg/

Feedback on GM: 2021
Please email benjamin_towell@bca.gov.sg or tracy_liu@bca.gov.sg for any enquiries, comments or feedback
on Green Mark 2021.

Page 25 of 32

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The development of Green Mark 2021 (GM: 2021) is a result of an extensive industry collaboration across the
built environment value chain. The Building and Construction Authority of Singapore would like to extend our
sincerest gratitude to all internal and external stakeholders for their invaluable support and contribution
towards the development of GM: 2021 that will enable us to develop a sustainable environment for our current
and future generations to come. In particular, we would like to thank the co-leads and members of the following
taskforces of the Singapore Green Building Masterplan review committee.

Taskforce 1 Pushing Boundaries Towards Net Zero Energy members
Ar. Owen Wee GMAAP (Surbana Jurong & SGBC)

Co-lead

Dr. Edward Ang (BCA)

Co-lead

Dr. Gao Chun Ping (BCA)

Co-lead

Er. Tay Cher Seng (Natflow)
Mr. Tan Sze Tiong (HDB)
Mr. Shuchi Jhalani (HDB)
Ar. John Mclaughlin GMAP (MKPL)
Dr. Stephen Tay (NUS)
Er. Ng Beow Suan GMAAP (Squire Mech)
Mr. Joseph Koh (JTC)
Mr. Daniel Lau (JTC)
Mr. Yubin Moo (MOE)
Ms. Farizan d'Avezac de Moran GMAAP (GreenA)
Ms. Irene Yong GMAAP (Beca)
Er. Loh Chee Shyong (UOB)
Mr. Wong Ee Ven GMAP (Keppel Land)
Ms. Gillian Oh (NEA)
Mr. Beh Lean Hooi GMAP (CapitaLand)
Ms. Lee Zhenyi GMAAP (C&W Services)
Mr. Jidesh Kambil GMAP (SGBC)

Page 26 of 32

Taskforce 3 Reinventing Green Mark members
Mr. Tan Phay Ping GMAAP (BSD & SGBC)

Co-lead

Mr. Jeffery Neng (BCA)

Co-lead

Er. Yong Siew Onn GMAAP (DP)
Er. Tony Tay Chye Teck (WSP)
Mr. Praveen Hassan Chandrashekar GMAP (Surbana Jurong)
Ms. Irene Yong GMAAP (Beca)
Ms. Eileen Lee GMAP (Woh Hup)
Mr. Kenny Lee (NUS)
Mr. Nilesh Y. Jadhav (Qisquare)
Mr. Venky. S GMAP (Lendlease)
Mr. Koh Tee Yan (JTC)
Ms. Rao Yimin GMAAP (JTC)
Mr. Alfred Ng GMAAP (CDL)
Mr. Derek Foo (Far East)
Ar. Ng Sin Yong GMAP (ADDP Architect)
Mr. Simon Lim (HPB)
Mr. Adrian Ting (CapitaLand)

Green Mark 2021
Mr. Jeffery Neng (BCA)

Editor

Ar. Benjamin Towell GMAAP (BCA)

Lead Author

Ms. Tracy Liu GMAAP (BCA)

Co-Lead

Secretariat and support
Mr. Thomas Pang GMAAP (BCA)
Mr. Leow Yock Keng GMAAP (BCA)
Ms. Chris Tay GMAAP (BCA)
Ms. Maisie Koh (BCA)
Mr. Md Halim Anpi GMAAP (BCA)
Dr. Jin Guang Yu GMAP (BCA)
Mr. Zhang Xiangjing GMAP (BCA)
Er. Ang Boon Wee (BCA)
Ms. Goh Jia Lin (BCA)
Mr. Tan Yu Xuan (BCA)

Page 27 of 32

ANNEX 1: KEY REGULATORY ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
Minimum Green Requirements Governing Buildings
Regulatory green standards from other agencies form the base for a holistic green building
All Green Mark buildings shall comply with the minimum regulatory requirements stipulated by government
agencies. These requirements form the base for a holistic green building and ensure that all sustainability
angles are achieved. These include energy and water conservation, climate resilience, greenery provision and
tree conservation, waste management and mobility.

BCA Environmental
Sustainability Regulation
40-50% energy efficiency
improvement over 2005
code

URA LUSH (Landscaping for
Urban Spaces and High-Rise)
Provide greenery and
communal spaces

PUB Water Efficiency
Management Practices
Ensuring climate resilience,
water monitoring and
management

NEA Waste Management
Reduce waste and
promote recycling

NParks Greenery Provision
and Tree Conservation
Conserve trees, safeguard
green spaces in premise/
roadside and implement
lush landscaping

LTA Active Mobility
Bicyle parking provision
requirement and End-of-Trip
facilities.

B

Page 28 of 32

BCA Environmental Sustainability Measures for New and Existing Buildings

Under the BCA Environmental Sustainability Measures, a building shall be designed and constructed with
energy performance that meets minimum energy performance improvement of 50% and 40% for new and
existing buildings respectively, over the 2005 baseline. This will be done via a performance-based approach
including energy modelling and energy audit methodology or a prescriptive approach through meeting
energy performance standards of key building systems.
Key building systems include:
1) air-conditioning system
2) lighting system
3) mechanical ventilation system
4) vertical transportation system
5) envelope and roof
6) air tightness and leakage
In addition, a building shall be designed with three other environmental sustainability features in relation to
energy and other carbon emission reduction measures. The environmental sustainability features for new
developments are classified in the following three sections:
1) Sustainable design strategies – optimise the use of passive design strategies in response to local
climate and site conditions to improve indoor environmental quality while minimising energy use
2) Sustainable construction – promotes the adoption of sustainable practices, material procurement
and design which inculcate responsible use and conservation of resources during construction and
building operation.
3) Sustainable technologies – encourages the provision of green building technologies that are oriented
towards establishing low energy building consumption and smart control systems that could adapt
to the users’ needs and enhance building energy performance.
The environmental sustainability features for existing buildings with major change in energy use are classified
in the following three sections:
1) Sustainable features – encourages incorporation of cost-effective green features and passive
strategies when a building is upgraded so as to minimise the overall building energy consumption
and to improve on indoor thermal comfort.
2) Sustainable operation and management – facilitate smart monitoring and integration of
sustainability management practices to maximise operational efficiency and carbon reduction
opportunities.
3) Sustainable technologies - encourage the provision of green building technologies that are oriented
towards establishing low energy building consumption and smart control systems that could adapt
to the users’ needs and enhance building energy performance.

Page 29 of 32

URA – LUSH (Landscaping for Urban Spaces and High-Rise)
LUSH is a comprehensive urban and skyrise greening programme comprising both landscape replacement
area (LRA) requirements and incentives to provide greenery and communal spaces.
The LRA requirements are calibrated by location, Gross Plot Ratio (GPR) and development type. A
development may include Sky Terraces, Communal Planter Boxes and Covered Communal Ground Gardens
amongst other features, towards meeting the LRA requirement.

Page 30 of 32

NParks – Greenery Provision and Tree Conservation for Developments
To achieve the vision of a City in Nature, National Parks Board (NParks) works closely with developers,
building owners, Qualified Persons (QPs), professionals and other public agencies. The handbook ‘Greenery
Provision and Tree Conservation For Developments’ seeks to provide a guide on the statutory and technical
requirement for conserving trees, safeguarding green spaces within premises and roadside and implementing
lush landscaping as part of development projects.

LTA – Bicycle Parking Provision Requirement and End-of-Trip Facilities
LTA and URA aim to promote cycling as a mode of transport, to enhance liveability and support the ‘car-lite’
vision for Singapore. It is important for developments to provide sufficient and well-maintained bicycle
parking spaces in order to facilitate more people to take up cycling as a commuting mode.
LTA introduced a new bicycle parking provision standard for all new development and buildings undergoing
redevelopment or reconstruction. This mandatory requirement took effect from 8 May 2018 for any new
application for new development, redevelopment and reconstruction works to URA. Mandatory bicycle
parking requirements will be based on development type.

NEA – Waste Management
Mandatory Reporting of Waste Data
The environmental Public Health Act (EPHA) was amended on 1 April 2014 to enable the mandatory reporting
of waste data and submission of waste reduction plans by any owner, occupier or lessee of a workplace, upon
their receipt of a written notice. Currently the commercial premises that are served a notice include hotels
with more than 200 rooms and shopping malls with more than 4,600 square metres of Net Lettable Area.
From 2020, factories with more than 20,000 square metres of Gross Floor Area (GFA), warehouses with more
than 50,000 square metres of GFA, and convention/ exhibition centres with more than 8,000 square metres
of GFA, will also be included.
Provision of Recycling Bins and Recycling Collection Services
Under the National Recycling Programme launched in April 2001, the public waste collectors (PWCs) licensed
by NEA are required to provide recycling bins and recycling collection services to all HDB estates, private
landed properties and condominiums/ private apartments opted into the public waste collection scheme.

Mandatory Segregation of Food Waste
From 2024 onwards, the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) and the National
Environment Agency (NEA) will make it mandatory for the owners and operators of commercial and industrial
premises, where large amount of food waste are generated, to segregate their food waste for treatment.
Dual Waste Chute and Pneumatic Waste Conveyance System
All new non-landed private residential development with more than four storeys will have two waste chutes
– one for recyclables and the other for general waste (rubbish) that will be incinerated. In addition,
development with at least 500 housing units must have a pneumatic waste conveyance system, which will
transport waste from rubbish chutes to a central collection area via a network of pipes.
Extended producer responsibility (EPR) system for e-waste management
NEA has introduced a regulated e-waste management that will ensure the proper collection and handling of
e-waste and the extraction of valuable resources from e-waste. The regulated e-waste management system
will be based on the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) approach, where producers bear the
Page 31 of 32

responsibility for the collection and treatment of their products when they reach end-of-life. This EPR system
will be implemented through the Resource Sustainability Act (RSA), administered by the NEA.
Mandatory packaging reporting
Under the mandatory packaging reporting (MPR) framework, producers of packaged products such as brand
owners, manufacturers and importers, as well as retailers such as supermarkets, will be required to submit
packaging data and 3R (reduce, re-use, recycle) plans to the NEA. Companies will have to provide information
on the packaging placed on the Singapore market, broken down according to type of packaging material (e.g.,
plastic, paper, metal, glass), packaging form (e.g., carrier bags, bottles) and the corresponding weights.

PUB – Water Efficiency
Water Efficiency Management Practices
Under the Water Efficiency Management Practices, it is mandatory for large water users with net water
consumption of at least 60,000 cubic metres in the previous year to:
1) install private water meters at key water usage areas within their premises
2) appoint at least one water efficiency manager (WEM)
3) submit their water efficiency management plan (WEMP)
Mandatory WELS
With effect from 1 Apr 2019, all taps and mixers (basin, sink, bib and shower), dual-flush low-capacity flushing
cisterns and urinal flush valves/ waterless urinals allowed for sale and supply in Singapore shall be of
minimum 2-ticks or more rating under the MWELS. 1-tick water fittings are no longer allowed for sale and
supply in Singapore from 1 Apr 2019 onwards.

Minimum Platform Level
The Minimum Platform Level (MPL) of a development site is the minimum ground level of the proposed
development which is necessary for flood protection. Developments that do not comply with the MPL
requirements will be subject to higher flood risks. Raising ground levels is the most effective way to protect
new developments from flood risks as there be no risk of mechanical failure. The MPL of a development site
can be found in the Code of Practice (COP) on Surface Water Drainage.

Page 32 of 32

